The Little Pianist
By Brij Kothari
There was once
a little boy named Azul.
He loved to play the piano
and dreamed of becoming
a pianist some day.
Every Sunday, Azul
went to his piano class,
and practiced
every night at home,
just before going to bed.
Azul became good at it
because he was so sincere.
He would forget
to brush his teeth
but would never
forget to practice
playing the piano!
One day, Vicki,
his piano teacher
told him,
“Azul,
you will perform tomorrow in front of
a large audience.
You are getting to be
quite the pianist!
Your fingers move
like a squirrel on the piano keys.
But
there is something missing.”
“What is it?”
Azul just had to know.
He really… really wanted to be,
not just a good pianist,
but a great pianist.
Vicki smiled.
She whispered into Azul’s ear
a piano teacher’s secret.
“Play with your heart,
not with your fingers.”
As always, Vicki
pulled out her box of stickers.
Azul held out his hand
and Vicki stuck on it,
a gorgeous sticker
of a butterfly.
“There,
think of this butterfly
when you want to play with your heart,”
she said.
That day,
when all the children
played in the park,
Azul just
stared at his butterfly.
He wondered,
“I can play with my fingers
because I can move them.
I can touch the piano keys.
How can I play
with my heart?
I can’t even
see my heart.”
For the first time,
in a long time,
Azul went to bed without
playing the piano.
The night
before his performance,
he did not practice
because he did not know
how to play with his heart!
When Azul woke up,
he looked for
the butterfly sticker.
Oh no!
The sticker was gone too!
Now Azul
was nervous.
Really nervous...
He tried playing the piano,
but his fingers
would just not move!
However,
that did not stop the clock from ticking.
Soon it was
performance time.
The piano was in
the middle of a round stage,
surrounded by rows
of people.
Azul
walked onto the stage,
sat on the piano bench
and closed his eyes for a second.
Remembering
Vicki’s words,
he thought of the butterfly.
In the quiet of the auditorium,
Azul heard the flutter of wings.
A butterfly sat on his shoulder
and started to hum a tune.
His fingers began
to move by themselves.
His heart began to play
the butterfly’s song.